---
categories: article
layout: post2
title: Thank you and a rain check ; others
date: 2020-09-26
tags: blog medium update
summary: medium page!
---

[title]

Hello dear reader, I share a quick rain check and announce my medium page :)

# Thank you

Before I go on, I would like to thank you. I have no analytics here so I do not know if anyone reads what I write. But if you do, thank you for sharing my journey. Know that I am really grateful to you for keeping me company. I hope you enjoy these as much as I do.

# Medium 

I have been feeling a bit bad about this blog lately. It started out as a personal blog but now it grew a bit more and I feel like the topics discussed here need a bit of a broader audience. It feels like a waste to hide this away on a page people wont look at.

Of course, I am **not** discontinuing this. I will continue to post here as long as I do this. 

I am adding another method of posting, ie. Medium. Now to be fair, I am not a really huge fan of Medium. But sometimes we do what we must. 

[Here is the link to my page](https://medium.com/@msubhaditya)

In the hopes that this little blog of mine will help more people be interested in the power of deep learning and take it to newer heights.

# A little rant
Life is hard, and we do not always get what we want. But I take this chance to send love and warmth to whoever needs it and I hope you do the same. Quarantine has made things a lot worse, and a lot better at the same time. Anyone who has suffered or has had personal losses, my best wishes are with you. I hope you can move on and live life as it takes you.

I would love to talk to you my dear reader and if you ever want to chat, drop me an email. 

I sure hope, one day this little blog will inspire people and maybe in my own tiny way, I would have changed the world.

Signing off,<br>
Loads of love,<br>
Subhaditya
